Docs/api reference (#1194)
reimagined/resolve: docs/api-reference.md

title: API Reference
---

## Read Model Connector Interface

> The table below lists functions that a custom Read Model's connector should implement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The table below lists functions a custom Read Model's connector should implement.
```

| Function Name             | Description                                                    |
| ------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | [connect](#connect)       | Initializes a connection to a storage.                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [connect](#connect)       | Initializes a connection to storage.                         |
```

| [disconnect](#disconnect) | Closes the storage connection.                                 |
| [drop](#drop)             | Removes the Read Model's data from storage.                    |

> | [dispose](#dispose)       | Dispose of all unmanaged resources provided by this connector. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [dispose](#dispose)       | Dispose of this connector's unmanaged resources. |
```

> | [dispose](#dispose)       | Forcefully disposes all unmanaged resources provided by this connector. |

Reviewer: Firstly, it disposes **of** or it does not - Why do you add 'forcefully'? I've discussed the use of adverbs with you before.

Reviewer: dispose **of**

Author: ok

### connect

> Initializes a connection to a storage. An implementation should return a store object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initializes a connection to storage. An implementation should return a store object.
```

> | [dispose](#dispose)       | Forcefully disposes all unmanaged resources that Read Models served by this connector use. |

Reviewer: - 'Forcefully'? Why forcefully?
- "that Read Models served by this connector use" - This does not make any sense

Rewrite

Author: > * 'Forcefully'? Why forcefully?

Because it does not wait for any processes to finish. As in 'forcefully shutdown/reboot a computer'

Author: > * "that Read Models served by this connector use" - This does not make any sense

I simplified it as follows: "Forcefully disposes all unmanaged resources provided by this connector."

Reviewer: 'As in 'forcefully shutdown/reboot a computer' - You shut it down, or you do not.

Author: ok

> Initializes a connection to a storage. An implementation should return a store object.

Reviewer: "An implementation" any implementation?

Author: Yes, we expect users to implement their own versions of this function.

#### Arguments

| Argument Name | Description                                       |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| readModelName | A read model for which to establish a connection. |

#### Example

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

[mdis]:# (../tests/custom-readmodel-sample/connector.js#connect)
```js
const connect = async readModelName => {
  fs.writeFileSync(`${prefix}${readModelName}.lock`, true, { flag: 'wx' })
  readModels.add(readModelName)
  const store = {
    get() {
      return JSON.parse(String(fs.readFileSync(`${prefix}${readModelName}`)))
    },
    set(value) {
      fs.writeFileSync(`${prefix}${readModelName}`, JSON.stringify(value))
    }
  }
  return store
}
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

### disconnect

Closes the storage connection.

#### Arguments

| Argument Name | Description                 |
| ------------- | --------------------------- |
| store         | A store object.             |

> | readModelName | A read model to disconnect. |

Reviewer: "A read model to disconnect" any read model?

Author: Changed to 'the'

#### Example

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

[mdis]:# (../tests/custom-readmodel-sample/connector.js#disconnect)
```js
const disconnect = async (store, readModelName) => {
  safeUnlinkSync(`${prefix}${readModelName}.lock`)
  readModels.delete(readModelName)
}
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

### drop

Removes the Read Model's data from storage.

#### Arguments

| Argument Name | Description                        |
| ------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| store         | A store object.                    |
| readModelName | A Read Model whose data to remove. |

#### Example

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

[mdis]:# (../tests/custom-readmodel-sample/connector.js#drop)
```js
const drop = async (store, readModelName) => {
  safeUnlinkSync(`${prefix}${readModelName}.lock`)
  safeUnlinkSync(`${prefix}${readModelName}`)
}
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

### dispose

> Forcefully disposes all unmanaged resources that Read Models served by this connector use.

Reviewer: - Why 'Forcefully'? 
- "that Read Models served by this connector use"?

Author: See my [other comment](https://github.com/reimagined/resolve/pull/1194#discussion_r316636506)

#### Example

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

[mdis]:# (../tests/custom-readmodel-sample/connector.js#dispose)
```js
const dispose = async () => {
  for (const readModelName of readModels) {
    safeUnlinkSync(`${prefix}${readModelName}.lock`)
  }
  readModels.clear()
}
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

## Read Model Store Interface

The table below lists functions that you can use to communicate with a Read Model store through a `store` object.

| Function Name               | Description                                       |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| [defineTable](#definetable) | Defines a new table within the store.             |
| [find](#find)               | Searches for data items.                          |
| [findOne](#findone)         | Searches for a single data item.                  |

> | [count](#count)             | Returns the count of items that meet a condition. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [count](#count)             | Returns the number of items that meet a condition. |
```

> | [find](#find)               | Searches for data items that based on the specified expression.                    |

Reviewer: "that based on"?

Author: Removed 'that'

| [insert](#insert)           | Inserts an item into a table.                     |

> | [update](#update)           | Searches for data items and updates them.         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [update](#update)           | Locates data items and updates them.         |
```

Reviewer: Surely, the 'searches for' or even 'locate' is irrelevant -  
```suggestion
| [update](#update)           | Updates data items.         |
```

> | [count](#count)             | Returns the count of items that meet the specified condition.                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [count](#count)             | Returns the number of items that meet the specified condition.                      |
```

> | [delete](#delete)           | Deletes data items based on the specified search expression.                       |

Reviewer: "the specified expression", "the specified expression", "the specified condition", " the specified table", "the specified update expression", ""the specified search expression"?

Author: Removed that 'specified' part from all descriptions in the table

### defineTable

Defines a new table within the store.

#### Arguments

| Argument Name    | Description                                         |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| tableName        | The new table's name.                               |
| tableDescription | An object that describes the new table's structure. |

#### Example

```js
Init: async store => {
  await store.defineTable('Stories', {
    indexes: { id: 'string', type: 'string' },
    fields: [
      'title',
      'text',
      'link',
      'commentCount',
      'votes',
      'createdAt',
      'createdBy',
      'createdByName'
    ]
  })
```

### find

> Searches for data items that based on the specified expression.

Reviewer: "that based on"? that?

Author: fixed

#### Arguments

| Argument Name    | Description                                 |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| tableName        | A table name.                               |
| searchExpression | An object that defines a search expression. |
| fieldList        | A list of fields to fetch.                  |

> | sort             | The sort order.                             |

Reviewer: Why use the definite article here, but not for the other descriptions?

Author: changed to 'a sort order'

| skip             | A number of data items to skip.             |
| limit            | The maximum number of data items to fetch.  |

#### Example

```js
const getStories = async (type, store, { first, offset }) => {
  await store.waitEventCausalConsistency()
  const search = type && type.constructor === String ? { type } : {}
  const skip = first || 0
  const stories = await store.find(
    'Stories',
    search,
    null,
    { createdAt: -1 },
    skip,
    skip + offset
  )
  return Array.isArray(stories) ? stories : []
}
```

### findOne

> Searches for a single data item based on the specified expression.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Searches for a data item based on the specified expression.
```

#### Arguments

| Argument Name    | Description                                 |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| tableName        | A table name.                               |
| searchExpression | An object that defines a search expression. |
| fieldList        | A list of fields to fetch.                  |

#### Example

```js
[STORY_UPVOTED]: async (store, { aggregateId, payload: { userId } }) => {
  const story = await store.findOne(
    'Stories',
    { id: aggregateId },
    { votes: 1 }
  )
  await store.update(
    'Stories',
    { id: aggregateId },
    { $set: { votes: story.votes.concat(userId) } }
  )
},
```

### count

> Returns the count of items that meet the specified condition.

Reviewer: Why 'the count'? 
```suggestion
Returns the number of items that meet the specified condition.
```

Reviewer: Do I have to correct the same things everywhere, or are you capable of going through your own text and correcting it yourself?

In addition to user-defined side effect functions, the `SideEffects` object contains the following default side effects:

| Function Name                       | Description                                                                                 |
| ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [executeCommand](#executecommand)   | Sends a command with the specified payload to an aggregate.                                 |
| [scheduleCommand](#schedulecommand) | Similar to `executeCommand`, but delays command execution until a specified moment in time. |

The `sideEffects` object's `isEnabled` field indicates whether or not side effects are enabled for the saga.

### executeCommand

Sends a command with the specified payload to an aggregate.

#### Arguments

| Argument Name | Description                                                                                                        |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | command       | Specifies a command object. Refer to the [Write Side](write-side#sending-a-command) document for more information. |

Reviewer: Why 'document'? Why not 'topic'? article?

Author: changed to 'article'

#### Example

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

[mdis]:# (../tests/saga-sample/saga.js#execute)
```js
await sideEffects.executeCommand({
  aggregateName: 'User',
  aggregateId: event.aggregateId,
  type: 'requestConfirmUser',
  payload: event.payload
})
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

### scheduleCommand

> Similar to `executeCommand`, but delays command execution until a specified moment in time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to `executeCommand` but delays the command's execution until a specified moment in time.
```

#### Arguments

| Argument Name | Description                                                                                                        |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| command       | Specifies a command object. Refer to the [Write Side](write-side#sending-a-command) document for more information. |

#### Example

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

[mdis]:# (../tests/saga-sample/saga.js#schedule)
```js
await sideEffects.scheduleCommand(
  event.timestamp + 1000 * 60 * 60 * 24 * 7,
  {
    aggregateName: 'User',
    aggregateId: event.aggregateId,
    type: 'forgetUser',
    payload: {}
  }
)
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

## Client-Side API

### HTTP API

> Resolve provides a standard HTTP API that allows you to send aggregate commands and query Read Models and View Models. Refer to the [Standard HTTP API](curl.md) document for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resolve provides a standard HTTP API that allows you to send aggregate commands and query Read and View Models. Refer to the [Standard HTTP API](curl.md) topic for more information.
```

#### Read Model API

> You can query a Read Model from the client side by sending a POST request to the following URL:

Reviewer: and here

Author: 'To query a Read Model from the client side, send a POST request to the following URL:'

Reviewer: Ok

```
http://{host}:{port}/api/query/{readModel}/{resolver}
```

##### URL Parameters:

| Name          | Description                                                                                                                           |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **readModel** | The Read Model name as defined in [config.app.js](https://github.com/reimagined/resolve/blob/master/examples/with-saga/config.app.js) |
| **resolver**  | The name of a [resolver defined in the Read Model](#resolvers)                                                                        |

The request body should have the `application/json` content type and the following structure:

```js
{
  param1: value1,
  param2: value2,
  // ...
  paramN: valueN
}
```

> The object contains the parameters that the resolver accepts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The object contains parameters that the resolver accepts.
```

##### Example

> Use the following command to get 3 users from the [with-saga](https://github.com/reimagined/resolve/tree/master/examples/with-saga) example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following command to get 3 users from the [with-saga](https://github.com/reimagined/resolve/tree/master/examples/with-saga) example:
```

```sh
curl -X POST \
-H "Content-Type: application/json" \
-d "{\"page\":0, \"limit\":3}" \
"http://localhost:3000/api/query/default/users"
```

#### View Model API

> You can query a View Model from the client side by sending a POST request to the following URL:

Reviewer: Do not use -ing forms

Author: 'To query a View Model from the client side, send a GET request to the following URL:'

Reviewer: Ok

```
http://{host}:{port}/api/query/{viewModel}/{aggregateIds}
```

##### URL Parameters

| Name         | Description                                                                                                                               |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| viewModel    | The View Model name as defined in [config.app.js](https://github.com/reimagined/resolve/blob/master/examples/shopping-list/config.app.js) |
| aggregateIds | The comma-separated list of Aggregate IDs to include in the View Model. Use `*` to include all Aggregates                                 |

##### Example

> Use the following command to get the current [shopping-list](https://github.com/reimagined/resolve/tree/master/examples/shopping-list) example application's state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following command to get the [shopping-list](https://github.com/reimagined/resolve/tree/master/examples/shopping-list) example application's state:
```

```sh
curl -g -X GET "http://localhost:3000/api/query/Default/shoppingLists"
```

#### Command API

You can send a command from the client side as a POST request to the following URL:

```
http://{host}:{port}/api/commands
```

> The request body should have the `application/json` content type and contain a JSON representation of the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The request body should have the `application/json` content type and contain the command's JSON representation.
```

```
{
  "aggregateName": aggregateName,
  "type": commandType,
  "aggregateId": aggregateID,
  "payload": {
    "param1": value1,
    "param2": value2,
    ...
    "paramN": valueN
  }
}
```

| Name              | Type   | Description                                           |
| ----------------- | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| **aggregateId**   | string | The ID of an aggregate that should handle the command |
| **aggregateName** | string | The aggregate's name as defined in **config.app.js**  |
| **commandType**   | string | The command type that the aggregate can handle        |

> | **payload**       | object | The parameters that the command accepts               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **payload**       | object | Parameters the command accepts               |
```

  "type":"createItem",
  "aggregateId":"root-id",
  "payload": {
    "id":`date +%s`,
    "text":"Learn reSolve API"
  }
}
'
```

### Resolve-Redux Library

The reSolve framework includes the client **resolve-redux** library used to connect a client React + Redux app to a reSolve-powered backend. This library provides the following HOCs:

| Function Name                                     | Description                                                                                                      |
| ------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [connectViewModel](#connectviewmodel)             | Connects a React component to a reSolve View Model.                                                              |
| [connectReadModel](#connectreadmodel)             | Connects a React component to a reSolve Read Model.                                                              |
| [connectRootBasedUrls](#connectrootbasedurls)     | Fixes URLs passed to the specified props so that they take into account the correct root folder path.            |

> | [connectStaticBasedUrls](#connectstaticbasedurls) | Fixes URLs passed to the specified props so that they take into account the correct static resource folder path. |

Reviewer: Why "take into account"?

Author: changed to 'use'

> | [connectRootBasedUrls](#connectrootbasedurls)     | Fixes URLs passed to the specified props so that they take into respect the correct root folder path.            |

Reviewer: "take into respect" Where did you find this phrase?

Author: I meant to write 'into account', fixed

  const aggregateId = ownProps.match.params.id

  return {
    viewModelName: 'ShoppingList',
    aggregateIds: [aggregateId]
  }
}

export const mapStateToProps = (state, ownProps) => {
  const aggregateId = ownProps.match.params.id

  return {
    aggregateId
  }
}

export const mapDispatchToProps = (dispatch, { aggregateActions }) =>
  bindActionCreators(
    {
      ...aggregateActions,
      replaceUrl: routerActions.replace
    },
    dispatch
  )

export default connectViewModel(mapStateToOptions)(
  connect(
    mapStateToProps,
    mapDispatchToProps
  )(ShoppingList)
)
```

#### connectReadModel

Connects a React component to a reSolve Read Model.

##### Example

```js
export const mapStateToOptions = () => ({
  readModelName: 'ShoppingLists',
  resolverName: 'all',
  resolverArgs: {}
})

export const mapStateToProps = (state, ownProps) => ({
  lists: ownProps.data
})

export const mapDispatchToProps = (dispatch, { aggregateActions }) =>
  bindActionCreators(aggregateActions, dispatch)

export default connectReadModel(mapStateToOptions)(
  connect(
    mapStateToProps,
    mapDispatchToProps
  )(MyLists)
)
```

#### connectRootBasedUrls

> Fixes URLs passed to the specified props so that they take into account the correct root folder path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixes URLs passed to the specified props and ensures they use the correct root folder path.
```

##### Example

```js
export default connectRootBasedUrls(['href'])(Link)
```

#### connectStaticBasedUrls

> Fixes URLs passed to the specified props so that they take into account the correct static resource folder path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixes URLs passed to the specified props to correct the static resource folder path.
```

> Fixes URLs passed to the specified props so that they take into respect the correct root folder path.

Reviewer: "take into respect"? Where did you find this phrase?

Reviewer: No answer?

Reviewer: Why resubmit this PR without answering all the questions or making all the necessary corrections?

> Fixes URLs passed to the specified props so that they take into respect the correct static resource folder path.

Reviewer: "take into respect"? respect?

Reviewer: No answer?

Author: Github collapsed some comments and I overlooked them, sorry.
Changed to 'into account'
